add guide for passing data between tasks (#191)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md

There are a few methods you can use to implement data sharing between your Airflow tasks. In this guide, we'll walk through the two most commonly used methods, discuss when to use each, and show some example DAGs to demonstrate the implementation. 

Before we dive into the specifics, there are a couple of high-level concepts that are important when writing DAGs where data is shared between tasks. 

### Ensure Idempotency

An important concept for any data pipeline, including an Airflow DAG, is [idempotency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence). This is the property whereby an operation can be applied multiple times without changing the result. We often hear about this concept as it applies to your entire DAG; i.e. if you execute the same DAGRun multiple times, you will get the same result. However, this concept also applies to tasks within your DAG; you can imagine that if every task in your DAG is idempotent, your full DAG will be idempotent as well. 

When designing a DAG that passes data between tasks, it is important to ensure that each task is idempotent. This will help you recover and ensure no data is lost should you have any failures.

> ### Keep in Mind the Size of Your Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Consider the Size of Your Data
```

> Knowing the size of the data you are passing between Airflow tasks is important when deciding which implementation method to use. As we'll describe in detail below, XComs are one method of passing data between task, but they are only appropriate for small amounts of data. Large data sets will require a method making use of intermediate storage and possible utilizing an external processing framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowing the size of the data you are passing between Airflow tasks is important when deciding which implementation method to use. As we'll describe in detail below, XComs are one method of passing data between task, but they are only appropriate for small amounts of data. Large data sets will require a method making use of intermediate storage and possibly utilizing an external processing framework.
```

## XCom

> The first method for passing data between Airflow tasks is to use XComs. XComs are an important feature of Airflow when it comes to sharing task data, so we'll talk about them in depth here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first method for passing data between Airflow tasks is to use XCom, which is a key Airflow feature for sharing task data.
```

### What is XCom

> [XCom](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#concepts-xcom) is short for cross-communication, and is a native feature within Airflow. XComs allow tasks to exchange task metadata or small amounts of data, and are defined by a key, value, and timestamp. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[XCom](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#concepts-xcom) (short for cross-communication) is a native feature within Airflow. XComs allow tasks to exchange task metadata or small amounts of data. They are defined by a key, value, and timestamp. 
```

> XComs can be "pushed", meaning sent by a task, or "pulled", meaning received by a task. When an XCom is pushed, it is stored in Airflow's metadata database and is made available to all other tasks. Any time a task returns a value (e.g. if your Python callable for your PythonOperator has a return), that value will automatically be pushed to XCom. Tasks can also be configured to push XComs by calling the `xcom_push()` method. Similarly, `xcom_pull()` can be used in a task to receive an XCom. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XComs can be "pushed", meaning sent by a task, or "pulled", meaning received by a task. When an XCom is pushed, it is stored in Airflow's metadata database and made available to all other tasks. Any time a task returns a value (e.g. if your Python callable for your PythonOperator has a return), that value will automatically be pushed to XCom. Tasks can also be configured to push XComs by calling the `xcom_push()` method. Similarly, `xcom_pull()` can be used in a task to receive an XCom. 
```

You can view your XComs in the Airflow UI by navigating to Admin → XComs. You should see something like this:

![XCom UI](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/xcom/xcom_ui.png)

### When to Use XComs

XComs should be used to pass **small** amounts of data between tasks. Things like task metadata, dates, model accuracy, or single value query results are all ideal data to use with XCom. 

> While there is nothing stopping you from passing small data sets with XCom, be very careful when doing so. This is not what XCom was designed for, and using it to pass data like pandas dataframes can degrade the performance of your DAGs and take up storage in the metadata database. XCom should definitely not be used for passing large data sets between tasks. The limit for the size of the XCom is determined by which metadata database you are using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there is nothing stopping you from passing small data sets with XCom, be very careful when doing so. This is not what XCom was designed for, and using it to pass data like pandas dataframes can degrade the performance of your DAGs and take up storage in the metadata database. 

XCom cannot be used for passing large data sets between tasks. The limit for the size of the XCom is determined by which metadata database you are using:
```
Assuming that the numbers below are coded into the database, so changing this to be a more firm recommendation.

- Postgres: 1 Gb
- SQLite: 2 Gb
- MySQL: 64 Kb

You can see that these limits aren't very big. And even if you think your data might squeak just under, don't use XComs. Instead, see the section below on using intermediary data storage, which is more appropriate for larger chunks of data.  

### XCom Backends

> It is possible to use a different service (such as S3) to store XComs and change the serialization and deserialization behavior of tasks results in XCom by setting up a [custom XCom backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#custom-xcom-backend). This is a large concept in its own right, so we won't go into too much detail here, but you can start by reading more about it in the linked Airflow documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to use a different service (such as S3) to store XComs and change the serialization and deserialization behavior of tasks results in XCom by setting up a custom XCom backend. This is a concept in its own right, so we won't go into too much detail here, but you can start by reading more about it in the [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#custom-xcom-backend).
```

### Example DAGs

> In this section, we'll show a couple of example DAGs that use XCom to pass data between tasks. For this example, we're interested in analyzing the increase in total number of Covid tests for the current day for a particular state. To implement this use case, we will have one task that makes a request to the [Covid Tracking API](https://covidtracking.com/data/api) and pulls the `totalTestResultsIncrease` parameter from the results; we will then have another task that takes that result and continues with some sort of analysis. This is a valid use case for XCom, because the data being passed between the tasks is a single integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll show a couple of example DAGs that use XCom to pass data between tasks. For this example, we're interested in analyzing the increase in total number of Covid tests for the current day for a particular state. To implement this use case, we will have one task that makes a request to the [Covid Tracking API](https://covidtracking.com/data/api) and pulls the `totalTestResultsIncrease` parameter from the results. We will then use another task to take that result and complete some sort of analysis. This is a valid use case for XCom, because the data being passed between the tasks is a single integer.
```

def analyze_testing_increases(state, ti):
    """
    Evaluates testing increase results
    """
    testing_increases=ti.xcom_pull(key='testing_increase', task_ids='get_testing_increase_data_{0}'.format(state))
    print('Testing increases for {0}:'.format(state), testing_increases)
    #run some analysis here

# Default settings applied to all tasks
default_args = {
    'owner': 'airflow',
    'depends_on_past': False,
    'email_on_failure': False,
    'email_on_retry': False,
    'retries': 1,
    'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5)
}

with DAG('xcom_dag',
         start_date=datetime(2021, 1, 1),
         max_active_runs=2,
         schedule_interval=timedelta(minutes=30),
         default_args=default_args,
         catchup=False
         ) as dag:

    opr_get_covid_data = PythonOperator(
        task_id = 'get_testing_increase_data_{0}'.format(state),
        python_callable=get_testing_increase,
        op_kwargs={'state':state}
    )

    opr_analyze_testing_data = PythonOperator(
        task_id = 'analyze_data',
        python_callable=analyze_testing_increases,
				op_kwargs={'state':state}
    )

    opr_get_covid_data >> opr_analyze_testing_data
```

> In this DAG we have two PythonOperators which share data using the `xcom_push` and `xcom_pull` functions. Note that in the `get_testing_increase` function we have used the `xcom_push` method so that we could specify the `key` name. We could have also simply had the function return the `testing_increase` value, because any value returned by an operator in Airflow will automatically be pushed to XCom; if we had used this method, the XCom key would be "returned_value". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this DAG we have two PythonOperators which share data using the `xcom_push` and `xcom_pull` functions. Note that in the `get_testing_increase` function, we used the `xcom_push` method so that we could specify the `key` name. Alternatively, we could have made the function return the `testing_increase` value, because any value returned by an operator in Airflow will automatically be pushed to XCom; if we had used this method, the XCom key would be "returned_value". 
```

For the `xcom_pull` call in the `analyze_testing_increases` function, we specify the `key` and `task_ids` associated with the XCom we want to retrieve. Note that this allows you to pull any XCom value (or multiple values) at any time into a task; it does not need to be from the task immediately prior as shown in this example

> If we run this DAG and then navigate to the XComs page in the UI, we will see a new row has been added for our `get_testing_increase_data_wa` task with the key `testing_increase` and Value returned from the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we run this DAG and then go to the XComs page in the Airflow UI, we see that a new row has been added for our `get_testing_increase_data_wa` task with the key `testing_increase` and Value returned from the API.
```

![Example XCom](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/xcom/example_xcom.png)

> And in the logs for the `analyze_data` task, we can see the value from the prior task was printed, meaning the value was successfully retrieved from XCom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the logs for the `analyze_data` task, we can see the value from the prior task was printed, meaning the value was successfully retrieved from XCom.
```

![Example XCom Log](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/xcom/example_xcom_log.png)

## TaskFlow API

> Another way to implement this use case is to make use of the [TaskFlow API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial_taskflow_api.html) that is a new feature released with Airflow 2.0. With the TaskFlow API, returned values are pushed to XCom as they would be normally, but XCom values can be pulled simply by adding the key as an input to the function as shown in the example DAG below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to implement this use case is to use the [TaskFlow API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial_taskflow_api.html) that was released with Airflow 2.0. With the TaskFlow API, returned values are pushed to XCom as usual, but XCom values can be pulled simply by adding the key as an input to the function as shown in the following DAG:
```

def taskflow():

    @task
    def get_testing_increase(state):
        """
        Gets totalTestResultsIncrease field from Covid API for given state and returns value
        """
        res = requests.get(url+'{0}/current.json'.format(state))
        return{'testing_increase': json.loads(res.text)['totalTestResultsIncrease']}

    @task
    def analyze_testing_increases(testing_increase: int):
        """
        Evaluates testing increase results
        """
        print('Testing increases for {0}:'.format(state), testing_increase)
        #run some analysis here

    analyze_testing_increases(get_testing_increase(state))

dag = taskflow()
```

This DAG is functionally the same as the first one, but thanks to the TaskFlow API there is less code required overall, and no additional code required for passing the data between the tasks using XCom. 

## Intermediary Data Storage

As mentioned above, XCom can be a great option for sharing data between tasks because it doesn't rely on any tools external to Airflow itself. However, it is only designed to be used for very small amounts of data. What if the data you need to pass is a little bit larger, for example a small dataframe?

> The best way to manage this use case is to use intermediary data storage. This means saving your data to some system external to Airflow at the end of one task, and reading it in from that system in the next task. Commonly this is done using cloud file storage such as S3, GCS, Azure Blob Storage, etc., but it could also be done by loading the data in either a temporary or persistent table in a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to manage this use case is to use intermediary data storage. This means saving your data to some system external to Airflow at the end of one task, then reading it in from that system in the next task. This is commonly done using cloud file storage such as S3, GCS, Azure Blob Storage, etc., but it could also be done by loading the data in either a temporary or persistent table in a database.
```
